In this lecture, you'll learn about system, log on to school devices, just log is a standard format
for logging messages and Cisco iOS complies with that standard.
Aslaug message is generated when something happens on the device, like if an interface comes up or
goes down or if an SPF neighbor adjacency comes up her goes down.
Versus a set format for the good messages, and this is an industry standard, all vendors comply with
the standard yeshivas.
Quite a few parameters here.
Let's go through it one by one.
So the first thing in the swag message is an optional sequence number.
For example, we don't have one set, so it's just a star there.
The next thing in the message is a timestamp.
You can see from our example that this event happened on October the 3rd at about quarter to 1:00 a.m.
The next thing that is listed is the facility.
This is the thing that generated the event.
And our example is going to be a change of state on a link.
So the facility here is the link.
If it had been an adjacency coming up or going down memory facility would have been SBF.
The next thing is the severity level.
We're going to cover this in more detail in a few slides.
There's eight different severity levels going from zero through to eight with zero being the most severe
in our example.
The severity level of this event is Cervetti five.
Next thing is in your mnemonic, which is a short description of what happened.
So here we can see that a link has changed.
And then the next thing, the last thing in this whole message is a more detailed description.
You can see the description and an example is the interface farchione four zero zero.
Change that state to administratively down to somebody tight shot down on that interface.
OK, so a standard format.
Next thing is the severity level.
Like I just said, there's eight different levels from zero through seven with zero being the most serious.
And these are, again, standard levels that are used the same by all vendors.
It's covered in the documentation for such log.
So the most serious event you can have would be an emergency, which is value zero.
So the values go from zero or seven in each of those values has got a standard name as well, the name
for severity level zero as emergency.
And that means that the system is unusable upon condition.
It's really bad.
The next severity level is an alert, which is level one.
A condition should be corrected immediately, such as a corrupted system database.
It's still really bad.
Critical is level to such as hard device errors and level three is an error.
So three and above up to zero are bad things.
Bad errors happening on your device.
Level four is a warning.
So that might be serious is definitely something that you want to check out.
Level five is a new S, which is a normal but significant condition that you should also check, for
example, an interface being shut down by an administrator.
That's not a warning or an error because somebody has to have deliberately done not.
Obviously, that can be impactful on the device.
So that's why it gets a noticeable.
The next one, level six, is informational, which is just an informational message.
Nothing's wrong.
It's a normal thing happening, but it's telling you about it.
And level seven is debug messages that contain information normally of use only when debugging a program.
So this would be quite low level, verbose, like a lot of detail about something happening.
First of all, messages can be logged to various locations from your router or switch, first place
that we can log to is the console line.
So if you are connected to the device over a console cable, you're logged in and you're working at
the command line, then you'll see that as you're working in a command line, you'll see six log messages
pop up in the command line interface.
As you're working in there, the logging to the console is turned on by default and the default severity
level is debugging.
So everything gets logged to the console by default.
Next place that we can log to is the virtual terminal.
So if you're at the command line again, but this time it's over a telnet or an associate session,
this is from logging there.
This is not enabled by default.
So you'll notice if you're working on a switch by default, if you're going over a console connection,
you're going to see messages popping up as you're working there.
But if you're over telling our associates, you won't notice because just log logging is enabled by
default, the console, but not in your terminal lines.
The next place we can log to is the logging buffer.
This is where events are saved and from memory on the device.
And to view the buffer, you do that with the Schule logging command and you'll see all the events that
are in the buffer, just like the console line.
Logging to the buffer is enabled by default as well.
And the last place that we can log to is an external log server, which I'll talk about in a bit more
detail later on in this lecture.
So those are logging locations, you can log to one of them or two of them or all of them, you can
walk to as many of them as you want.
It's the same messages that will be getting logged to each of the different locations.
But you can log either the same or different severity levels to each of those different locations when
you do that.
All messages of that severity level that you set for that location and higher will be logged there.
For example, if you set a logging level of three for the console, then events with severity levels
zero, one, two and three will be involved there.
So it's everything at that level and everything Morse code as well.
Remember, the lure of a number of a Morse code is if you say logging level of seven to an external
system, log server events from all sweaty levels to zero to seven would be log there.
So let's have a look at how you would configure this, remember, logging the console is turned on by
default.
If you want to disable more than a global config, you could use to command no logging control.
Next example is for logging to the UI lines for Telnet and MSH connections.
It's a logging monitor there.
And then we set the Laboe here.
We've said logging monitor six six is known by the name of informational.
So everything informational and higher would show up in your command line when you're logged in using
a telnet or associate session.
And the last example here is logging buffer to debugging logging.
Bufford is going to Verum Buffer and here it is, the debugging level.
So that would be everything seven and higher.
You can also log to an external long server, the benefit you get from this is that it centralisers
event reporting.
Maybe you've got 30 Ersin switches in your compass.
You could configure them all to log to the same source log server.
And then you've got one single location that you can use for monitoring all of the logs.
If you are using an external search log server, you'll typically set verbose and logging there because
you want to have a lot of information on not just the whole point of a system is for logging.
So you're not going to have minimal information getting logged there.
You're going to log everything.
So that way when you are troubleshooting later, you're going to have all the details that you need.
You don't have to do that, but it's what people would normally do.
The configuration to log to an external system.
Org server, a global config logging, and then the IP address of an external server and then logging.
Tropp on the severity level that you want to log there.
So here we're using debugging, which is what we'd normally be done.
And this is an example of what you would see are not external log server, for example, here is the
key source of all servers are free version that you can get from service.
And you see the information that's listed there with the date of the event, the time the event happened,
the prior to a which is the severity level, the host names, you can see the actual device that logged
this event and then a message, what actually happened?
OK, so that was really a basic slug server we had to look out there and that gives you a general benefit
of centralizing all of your logs.
Another thing you can use is a steam system.
Steam stands for security information and event management that also provides a centralized location
for all your logging messages.
But this is normally a bit more of an expensive option than a basic search log server.
And it will typically provide advanced analysis, advanced reporting, nice graphs, and it can Kodaly
events as well.
Meaning, for example, if somebody was launching an attack against you, you would have multiple devices
and logging events about it properly on the Besim system can look at the information from those multiple
devices and she related to each other and it can report or not for you.
So using a stream system gives you more advanced reporting tools and more advanced troubleshooting tools
as well.
OK, so once we've got our logging set up to view how you have configured it, this logging command
will do that.
So you can see here we are logging at our cervetti level events to the console, warning to our viewing
lines and debugging to the buffer also from that same command she logging underneath your configuration.
Under there, you'll see all of the events that are in the buffer.
So if we look at the example here, you can see down at the bottom there, we can see a couple of interfaces
coming out.
OK, so that's how you see your configuration and also how you see the events in the buffer.
OK, a couple of things I want to tell you about at the end of the lecture here.
First one is logging Synchronoss.
So when you're working in a command line session by default, any system log messages are getting logged.
There are going to be printed into the middle of any commands that you're currently typing.
So you can see an example here.
I was entering the command do you IP interface brief and in the middle of an event was logged.
And what happens is it makes it hard to see where you're at in your command.
It's actually quite easy in the example because I've highlighted in blue text, but when you're working
at video command line, it's not going to be highlighted in blue and it's going to make it hard to see
where you were in your command.
And what you usually end up doing is just hitting backspace to delete everything and then start the
command again.
And it's a little bit annoying.
So you can stop that from happening.
And when you do that is by using the logging synchronous command.
This is done at the lighting level so you can configured it under a control line in your view lines
as well.
And you just enter the command logging synchronous light.
You can see here once you do that, it's exactly the same thing again.
So I'm in the middle of a command.
I'm doing a do you IP interface brief, but I haven't finished typing it yet.
And while I'm in the middle of typing that command, a logging event comes up.
But because of enabled logging synchronise it reprints the command that I was typing in exactly what
I was on a new line and then I can see exactly what I am and not command and I don't get confused.
So it's best practice to configure and logging synchronous on your lines just makes things more convenient.
Last thing to tell you about, which is another thing that you're going to want to know about because
it's important and it's useful for your world is about debug and the terminal monitor command.
So show and debug commands can be used to view specific information over and above the standards.
Just log messages.
You've already seen loads of your commands as we've been going through the course of your output shows
a static point in time stage.
You enter the command and it gives you the output of Vista when you hit the Anarky debug output dynamically
updates in real time so you could, for example, debug messages.
And as new events happen, they will be reported in Utah in real time in the command line.
So it keeps updating, it keeps giving you new information.
Debug is very useful.
If you're doing some troubleshooting, be careful with debug commands.
In production environments, a large amount of output can overwhelm the device for some debug that will
generate loads of information.
And it's all getting into the command line and it kind of unlocks the device.
So be careful.
Don't run any of those commands on a production system.
Debug output is logged to the console line and the buffer by default.
If you do a debug and you're connected over a console line, you will see your output and also you can
do a show logging to see the output as well.
But if you're logged in over a telnet or associate session, which you usually will be, and uncredible
command, even though events are being generated, you're not going to see them in the command line.
And this is something that trip shop administrators are new to Cisco devices all the time.
So to actually see the debug output being reported, you have to put in the terminal monitor command
and that is done in the enable prompt give out maybe isn't making too much sense now.
So I'll show you what I mean right in the next lecture when we do a lab demo.